
Chapter 14, Question 5
How did developed nations entice developing nations to participate in efforts to ban the production of CFC's? Could a similar approach be used to entice developing nations to participate in efforts to lower emissions of greenhouse gases?

The Montreal Protocol was a treaty formed in 1987, which (among other provisions) called for a 50% reduction in the manufacture of CFC's by 1998. The primary developing nations that refused to sign the Montreal Protocol were India and China. They felt that as developing nations, the treaty could cause problems with their efforts to raise their standards of living. The developed nations taking part in the Protocol countered these creating a fund to help discover and develop alternate technologies that didn't involve CFC's and were more "ozone friendly." 

The Kyoto Protocol is a similar attempt, to get many nations to reduce the use of greenhouse gases. There is a major difference in these two problems, however. With regards to the Kyoto Protocol - the primary offender is a developed nation - the US. Even were all the developing nations to agree to the Protocol (and many already have) - the secont most egregious offender (The US) refuses to ratify this treaty, and two other of the 5 (China and India) are not required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Since the US is generally regarded as a world leader, it's refusal to accept the terms of the Protocol means that the likelihood of success is greatly reduced. However, the reason that greenhouse gas emissions remain so high is that the processes that produce these gases are the most economically viable way to accomplish the needed tasks eg - internal combustion engines, mining, power generation. A fund would definitely help the reduction by providing alternate technologies and methods (some or most of which already exist), but with 3 of the largest countries (China, US, India) already showing their disinterest in following the Protocol - it would be difficult or impossible to find the money for the fund. Lastly, where the CFC issue affected 200,000 people and 8 billion dollars, the coal industry alone, just in the US employs nearly 174,000 people. The greenhouse gas ban or reduction would affect vastly more - likely hundreds of millions of people in just those three countries (everyone who owns a car, for instance). 

In conclusion, while a similar funding approach might entice some developing nations into reducing their greenhouse gas emissions, I don't think it will be sufficient. The US, China and India will need to agree to be bound by a similar treaty or protocol, despite the lack of funding, in order to make serious progress towards climate change. 

http://www.carbonify.com/articles/kyoto-protocol.htm

Chapter 15, Question 4:
Explain how social institutions affect the willingness of farmers to adopt soil conservation measures.

A social institution can be defined as "A group of persons banded together for common purposes, having rights, privileges, liabilities, goals, or objectives distinct and independent from those of individual members.(1)" In this case, a social institution could refer to a group that would enforce private property rights for farmers. 

In the case where a farmer leases or rents a tract of land, he has no motivation to adopt or invest in soil conservation methods, as there is no guarantee that the tenant will have access to the land beyond the terms of the current rental or lease.  This situation would be analogous to someone renting an apartment for a year, then spending thousands of dollars to renovate it, knowing he may have to leave at the years end. Financially, it makes very little sense to invest in something with an unknown future return. 

In the case where there exists a social institution that works towards consistent ownership of farming lands, this gives farmers a much bigger incentive to invest in soil conservation methods, as they have a guarantee that they will have access to the same property and planting land long term - and thus it benefits them to keep the land in as good a shape as possible, knowing they will have to tend the same land and plant on it for dozens, or hundreds of years (in the case of family farms that are handed down.) Farmers will be more likely to invest in something that will give them a future return.

In conclusion, the aforementioned social institutions will positively affect the willingness of farmers and long-term land tenants to adopt soil conservation methods and measures, as it will lead to their own long-term profit. 

(1) - Webster's II New Riverside University Dictionary


Chapter 16, Question 1:
If Hunter-Gatherers are so energy-efficient, why are their populations so small?

Hunter-Gatherer populations are sparse because they do not adapt the land to meet their needs, instead living off of what the land can produce naturally, and at the density that exists in the unmodified ecosystem.

A Hunter-Gatherer society lives on naturally occurring plant life (fruits, vegetables and cereals), and what animals it can hunt. Their food sources are not modified from what the ecosystem provides. The question is somewhat misleading, in that efficiency and size of population do not share a causative relationship. An efficient population does not necessarily cause a large population. In this case, efficiency refers to the return on investment - often 10:1 or 20:1 (although in some cases, this can be as high as 100:1). 

The alternative (agriculture) requires a much larger effort outlay, and has a smaller return on investment. By transforming the ecosystem, an agricultural population can increase density by removing the plant and animal species who provide little or no food with ones that provide a great deal of it, thus increasing the population density of the land by orders of magnitude over hunter-gatherer populations.