Choice Book Project [25% of your final grade]
Due Friday, 4/5 by 11:59pm. No late projects will be accepted.

This assignment will be a short research paper (4-6 pages) about a children’s book of your choice. Feel free to get a head start, but don’t neglect the other readings and assignments!! 

Your Choice Book Project asks you to choose ANY children's book for kids aged 0-12.  Young Adult literature will be discussed and explored in ENGL 404, so please stick to young readers.  If there is a particular book you'd like to study and you're not quite sure if it qualifies, just ask and I'll be glad to help.

This project asks you to read the book you choose and then explore a major theme or question that comes up for you when you think about the book. As an example, here are some titles of past projects created for this mini-research paper:

"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire as Introduction to Adolescence for Young Readers"

"The Psychological Implications of Harold and the Purple Crayon"

"Teaching Children about Terminal Illness and The Velveteen Rabbit"

"Where the Wild Things Are and Understanding Children's Anger"

"Gay Parents and their Children: Heather has Two Mommies and Neil Patrick Harris' Family Life Interviews"

"Charlotte's Web and Children's Connections to Animal Friends"

So, as you can see - you can relate this paper to your own course of study. Or to anything that interests you when you sit and think about what a particular book meant to you personally. 

Here are detailed instructions for the project:

1. Choose a children's book to focus on.

2. Choose the topic you will write about.

3. Find at least 3 scholarly sources to use in your research.

 -Scholarly books or journal articles are the best sources. Ask me for help if you need it.

4. Write an analysis based on your chosen topic and include the sources you found to strengthen your argument.

5. Be sure the paper is in MLA format throughout (see sample and MLA info for help in Course Documents learning module)

6. Papers should be 4-6 pages. Remember to cite all quotes and paraphrased discussions from your sources. 

Feel free to submit a draft to me via eCampus email if you'd like assistance or feedback during the process. 
